# &

## Basic syntax

To use the bitwise and function (`&`), the basic syntax is as follows:

```pact
(& *x*:integer *y*:integer)
```

This function takes two arguments of integer type, `x` and `y`, and performs a bitwise 'AND' operation, which compares the binary representations of these arguments bit by bit.

For the bitwise 'AND' operation, if both corresponding bits in `x` and `y` are 1, then the corresponding result bit is set to 1. Otherwise, the result bit is set to 0. The function returns an integer as a result of this operation.

Here's an example of how to use the bitwise and function:

```pact
(& 2 3)
``` 

In this case, the binary representation of 2 is `10` and of 3 is `11`. The function compares these bit by bit and returns `2` (`10` in binary) as the result. The corresponding bits of `2` and `3` (in binary) have 1s at the same positions, so those positions in the result are also 1s; the other positions in the result are 0s.

## Arguments

| Argument | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| x | integer | The first integer input to compute the bitwise AND operation.|
| y | integer | The second integer input to compute the bitwise AND operation. |

## Prerequisites

N/A

## Return values

The `&` function returns an integer that represents the result of a bitwise AND operation performed on the input integers. The returned integer would be useful in scenarios that require bit-level manipulation or analysis of numbers.

## Examples

The following example demonstrates performing bitwise AND operation on two positive integers:

```pact
(& 2 3)
2
```

This example shows applying bitwise AND operation on a positive integer and a negative integer:

```pact
(& 5 -7)
1
```

It is important to note the bitwise AND operation will convert negative numbers to their 2's complement form and then execute the operation. Hence, when a positive integer and negative integer are involved in bitwise AND, the result may often be a positive number.

Note that `&` works with Integer data type only, any other data type would not be accepted. For example, the code below would return an error because it's trying to perform bitwise AND operation on non integer data types:

```pact
(& "bitwise" "and")
"Invalid integer: bitwise"
```

## Options

N/A

## Property validation

For property validation, the `&` function could be used within invariants or property tests to ensure that certain conditions in your code hold true. Since the `&` operator carries out a bitwise "and" operation between two integers, you can utilize this function to perform checks or validations on binary properties of your arguments.

It's important to note that this function expects two integers as arguments. Any other types will result in an error.

## Gotchas

The `&` function expects two integers as input and returns an integer. If any other data types are used as input, the function might return erroneous results or throw a runtime error. Be aware that this function performs a bitwise AND operation, so it might not behave as expected with negative numbers or non-integer numeric values due to the internal binary representation of these values. Always ensure the validity and data types of input values before using them with the `&` function.

