# =

## Basic syntax

The basic syntax of the `=` operator is as follows:

```pact
(= x y)
```

Here, `x` and `y` can be of any of the acceptable data types which includes `integer`, `decimal`, `string`, `time`, `bool`, `object`, or `keyset`. The function checks if `x` and `y` are equal and then returns a boolean.

Here are some examples of the `=` operator in use with different data types:

For integers and decimals:
```pact
(= 5 5)
true
(= 1.5 1.5)
true
```

For strings:
```pact
(= "hello" "hello")
true
```

For boolean:
```pact
(= true true)
true
(= false false)
true
```

The `=` operator returns `true` if `x` and `y` are equal, otherwise it returns `false`.

## Arguments

| Argument | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| x | various | The first value for comparison. The type can be integer, decimal, string, time, bool, object, or keyset. |
| y | various | The second value for comparison. The type should be the same as the first argument. |

## Prerequisites

N/A

## Return values

The `=` function returns a boolean value `bool` indicating whether the two provided arguments are equal or not. This function returns `true` if `x = y` otherwise `false`. The return value is useful in conditional statements or loops where a decision needs to be taken based on the equality of two variables.

## Examples

The function `=` is used to check if two arguments are equal, and returns a boolean value - `true` if they are equal and `false` if they are not. Here are a few examples:

1. Compare numerical values:

```pact
(= 1 1)
```
This will return `true` as both integers are equal.

2. Compare strings:

```pact
(= "hello" "hello")
```
This will return `true` as both string values are equal.

3. Property validation:

```pact
(property (user != ""))
```
This will return `true` if user is not an empty string and `false` otherwise.
  
4. Invariant check:

```pact
(property (price > 0.0))
```
This will return `true` if price is greater than 0 and `false` otherwise. 

The `=` function can compare different types of Pact data types like integers, decimals, strings, time, booleans, objects, and keysets. Please check if the types of both arguments are the same before performing the equality check.

## Options

N/A

## Property validation

In the context of property validation, the `=` function is regularly used in pact language for checking conditions in property preservation and invariants.

The `=` checks if the two inputs are equal. An `enforce` function is usually wrapped around it, which takes a condition that should evaluate to true and an error message that will be shown if the condition doesn't hold.

Here are a few examples of how `=` can be used for property validation:

```pact
(enforce (= x y) "Values are not equal")

(property (= (+ a b) (- a b)))
```

In the first example, the `enforce` function raises an error if `x` is not equal to `y`. In the second example, it's used to define a property that states the sum of `a` and `b` is equal to the difference of `a` and `b`.

It's important to note that the `=` function can be used to compare any types of values if they are of the same type. Trying to compare different types of values will lead to execution errors.

## Gotchas

N/A

