# ^

## Basic syntax

Use `^` to perform exponentiation operation on two numbers. The numbers can be of type integers or decimals.

To raise the first number to the power of the second number, use the following syntax:

```pact
(^ *base*:integer or decimal *exponent*:integer or decimal)
```

This function accepts two arguments, both can be either of integer or decimal type. Here `base` is the number which needs to be raised to some power and `exponent` is the number that signifies the power to which the base number needs to be raised. 

For Example:

```pact
(^ 2 3)
//outputs: 8
```

In the above example, the function `^` takes two arguments, where '2' is the base and '3' is the exponent. The function raises '2' to the power of '3', resulting in '8'.

## Arguments

| Argument | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| x | integer, decimal | Specifies the base. |
| y | integer, decimal | Specifies the exponent.|

## Prerequisites

N/A

## Return values

The `^` function returns the result of raising `x` to the power of `y`. The return data type will be the same as the data type of `x` if both `x` and `y` share the same type which can be either `integer` or `decimal`. However, if `x` is an `integer` or `decimal` and `y` is a `decimal`, then the return type will always be a `decimal`. This output can be used in mathematical calculations, or property and invariant validations.

## Examples

The `^` function raises a number, X, to the power of another number, Y.

This function can take integer or decimal arguments and the result type is determined by the type of the arguments.

Here are few examples:

Raising an integer to the power of another integer:

```pact
(^ 2 3)
```
Result: 
```
8
```

Raising a decimal to the power of a decimal:

```pact
(^ 2.0 3.0)
```
Result:
```
8.0
```

Raising an integer to the power of a decimal:

```pact
(^ 2 3.0)
```
Result:
```
8.0
```

Raising a decimal to the power of an integer:

```pact
(^ 2.0 3)
```
Result:
```
8.0
```

## Options

N/A

## Property validation

N/A

## Gotchas

For the `^` function, keep in mind that working with very large numbers or very small fractions could lead to inaccurate results due to the precision limitations of decimal numbers in Pact. Additionally, considering that negative powers calculate the reciprocal (1/n) of the number, raising a number to a negative power requires a non-zero input; otherwise, it will lead to a division by zero error.

